In the last lectures, we started displaying notifications and this is using the notification API in the
normal browser window.
Nothing wrong with that
but oftentimes, you actually display notifications through a service worker and actually, you can always use
a service worker if your browser supports it
and since we need it anyways for push messages, I'll switch to a service worker here. The options we
can pass to the notification will be the same.
So what I'll do is, I will first of all check if service worker is supported in the given navigator,
so if the user browser has this feature. If it doesn't have it, well then we can't display a notification
and you could fallback to that syntax,
of course that only makes sense for a normal notification here because if we later start using push,
we need service workers anyways,
so I will
right switch to them. Now
to display a notification through the service worker,
we simply access our navigator and there, the service worker object
and then I want to get access to the active service worker registration.
We do this by simply calling ready here, ready just checks if the service worker is ready and then
returns a promise.
Now in this promise, we get access to the current service worker registration,
that basically means the service worker currently managing our page and once it's ready, we get the service
worker registration, so I'll call it swreg.
This basically is our active service worker, though the registration is basically the service worker
plus so to say because the service worker itself is of course managed in the sw.js
file by accessing the whole registration,
we can not only listen to incoming events but we can also do more, for example show notifications,
that is one of the features the service worker registration supports. On the service worker registration,
we can call show notification.
This is simply this service worker interface to notifications and the constructor here, the method to
be precise, takes the same arguments as this notification,
so we pass a title and the options. So I'll pass it here
and of course I'll pass my options object
also inside the if block because we only need it if we do support service workers,
I won't show a notification otherwise and I will get rid of this new notification code here at the
bottom.
So now just with this changed,
let's see if it works.
I'll save this
and one step I want to do before we see this, I'll add from sw in my title to really see if it's coming from
there or if we just somehow run the old code.
So now I'll save it and now back in the application, let's go to the application, clear storage and
clear the site data to clean up everything and reload the fetch the new code
and now let me click that button and you see on the different screen here in my case but of course
screenshot as always, that I get the same notification as before but this time with from service worker
added.
Now with that, we got a way of displaying a notification directly from within the service worker,
this will become more important later too when we actually start receiving push messages.
Now with that, let's dive deeper into the options and see what else we can configure about this notification.